write a complete setup guide for ocis with system (#327)
owncloud/docs-ocis: modules/ROOT/pages/deployment/binary/small-scale.adoc

> = Small-Scale Deployment With systemd 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Small-Scale Deployment with systemd 
```

== Introduction

This guide describes the installation of a small-scale installation of Infinite Scale as a systemd service. Small-scale means everything is running on one host and you don't expect the setup to handle thousands of users.

== Requirements

* A filesystem supporting {xattr-url}[extended attributes]
* {systemd-url}[systemd]
* A HTTP reverse proxy, e.g. {nginx-url}[nginx]
* {certbot-url}[Certbot] + the nginx plugin

This guide was tested on a Debian 11 (bullseye) host but should work on any other modern linux system with sytemd.

== Install the oCIS binary

First of all, you need to download and install the oCIS binary. To get the stable binary from ownCloud, visit {ocis-downloadpage-url}?sort=time&order=desc[download.owncloud.com,window=_blank], select the version and the platform of choice and copy the link of the file.

[source,bash]
----
sudo wget -O /usr/local/bin/ocis <file_url>
----

Make the binary executable with:

[source,bash]
----
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/ocis
----

Check the version installed:

[source,bash]
----
ocis version
----

The output looks like this:

[source,plaintext,subs="attributes+"]
----
ocis version {ocis-version}
----

> == Create service user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create Service User
```

Next you need to create a user who will run the service and own all the files of the Infinite Scale service.

[source,bash]
----
sudo useradd -r ocis
----

> == Data directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Data Directory
```

Then you need to create the data directory. All system data will be stored here and all files uploaded by the users.

[source,bash]
----
sudo mkdir /var/lib/ocis
----

> Make the ocis user the owner of the data directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make the oCIS service user the owner of the data directory.
```

Reviewer: We just created a user named 'ocis'

[source,bash]
----
sudo chown ocis:ocis /var/lib/ocis
----

> == Config file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuration File
```

> Now create a directory and config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now create a directory and config file:
```

[source,bash]
----
sudo mkdir /etc/ocis
sudo touch /etc/ocis/ocis.env
----

[source,bash]
----
sudo chown -R ocis:ocis /etc/ocis
----

Then fill the environment file `/etc/ocis/ocis.env` with the following content.

> You need to adjust the `OCIS_URL` variable to hold your domain where Infinite Scale will be reachable. If that is on a port other than `443` you need to also add the port like `https://ocis.example.com:4242`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to adjust the `OCIS_URL` variable to hold your domain where Infinite Scale will be reachable via nginx. If that is on a port other than `443` you need to also add the port like `https://ocis.example.com:4242`.
```

PROXY_HTTP_ADDR=0.0.0.0:9200
PROXY_TLS=false
OCIS_INSECURE=false

OCIS_LOG_LEVEL=warn

OCIS_CONFIG_DIR=/etc/ocis
OCIS_BASE_DATA_PATH=/var/lib/ocis
----

`PROXY_TLS` is set to `false` because TLS termination will be done by nginx.

Next you need to generate the initial oCIS configuration file.
[source,bash]
----
sudo -u ocis ocis init --config-path /etc/ocis
----

You will be asked if you want to configure Ininite Scale with certificate checking disabled.
You can safely answer `yes`. oCIS is composed of several microservices which encrypt the communication between them with TLS.
By answering with `yes` the communication is still encrypted but client and server certificates aren't checked for validity. Usually this is good enough.
If you want an extra secure deployment you can of course provide your own TLS certificates and activate the certificate checking.

NOTE: The command when successful will show you the initial admin users password. Write it down somewhere safe so that you can log in when the setup is complete.

This will have created a configuration file `/etc/ocis/ocis.yaml`.

IMPORTANT: Do NOT delete the  `ocis.yaml` file without creating a backup of it first.

> When you regenerate the `ocis.yaml` file it will be out of sync with the stored user data in the ocis data directory `/var/lib/ocis`.

Reviewer 2: hm what piece axactly, only the admin password should be a problem, right? if the issuer changes that might currently be a problem because, although I'm not so sure ... what else?

> If you for some reason still want to regenerate the config file you first need to empty the data directory but beware if you already have user files stored there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If for some reason you still want to regenerate the config file, you first need to empty the data directory but beware if you already have user files stored there.
```

== Systemd service

Create the Systemd service definition for oCIS in the file `/etc/systemd/system/ocis.service` with following content:

[source,plaintext]
----
[Unit]
Description=OCIS server

[Service]
Type=simple
User=ocis
Group=ocis
EnvironmentFile=/etc/ocis/ocis.env
ExecStart=ocis server
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
----

Run the following command to apply your changes:

[source,bash]
----
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
----

Now you can run Infinite Scale as a systemd service. Start it with:

[source,bash]
----
sudo systemctl enable --now ocis
----

With this setup, Infinite Scale is restarted automatically after a reboot.

If you need to restart Infinite Scale because of configuration changes in `/etc/ocis/ocis.env`, run:

[source,bash]
----
sudo systemctl restart ocis
----

The logs of Infinite Scale can be displayed by issuing:

[source,bash]
----
sudo journalctl -f -u ocis
----

== Nginx reverse proxy

> To setup nginx as a reverse proxy with Let's Encrypt TLS certificates add a file called e.g. `ocis` to `/etc/nginx/sites-available` with the following content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up nginx as a reverse proxy with Let's Encrypt TLS certificates, add a file called e.g. `ocis` to `/etc/nginx/sites-available` with the following content:
```

[source,plaintext]
----
server {
  listen 80 ;
  listen [::]:80 ;
  server_name ocis.example.com;
}
----

> Activate the config and reload nginx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Activate the config and reload nginx:
```

[source,bash]
----
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/ocis /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/ocis
sudo systemctl reload nginx
----

> Run the certbot to generate TLS certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the certbot to generate TLS certificates:
```

[source,bash]
----
sudo certbot --nginx -d ocis.example.com
----

Add the proxy config to the nginx site config. The full config should look like this:

[source,plaintext]
----
server {
  server_name ocis.example.com;
  location / {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:9200;
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    client_max_body_size 0;
  }
    listen [::]:443 ssl ipv6only=on; # managed by Certbot
    listen 443 ssl; # managed by Certbot
    ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/ocis.example.com/fullchain.pem; # managed by Certbot
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/ocis.example.com/privkey.pem; # managed by Certbot
    include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-nginx.conf; # managed by Certbot
    ssl_dhparam /etc/letsencrypt/ssl-dhparams.pem; # managed by Certbot

}
server {
    if ($host = ocis.example.com) {
        return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
    } # managed by Certbot

  listen 80 ;
  listen [::]:80 ;
  server_name ocis.example.com;
    return 404; # managed by Certbot

}
----

> Reload nginx again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reload nginx again:
```

[source,bash]
----
sudo systemctl reload nginx
----

> And now open up a web browser, navigate your ocis url and login with the admin user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And now open up a web browser, navigate your oCIS URL and login with the admin user.
```

Reviewer: oCIS -> Infinite Scale

> And now open up a web browser, navigate your ocis url and login with the admin user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now open a web browser, navigate to your Infinite Scale URL and log in as admin user.
```

> == Next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Next Steps
```

> There are a few steps that you should consider next but which we won't focus on in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few steps that you should consider next, but we won't cover those in this guide.
```

* Automate the Let's Encrypt certificate renewal via cron jobs

> * Install and setup a firewall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install and set up a firewall
```
